Add Blog: "Flink SQL Demo: Building an End to End Streaming Application" (#335)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo-building-e2e-streaming-application.md

---
layout: post
title: "Flink SQL Demo: Building an End-to-End Streaming Application"

> date: 2020-05-03T12:00:00.000Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2020-07-28T12:00:00.000Z
```

Reviewer: File (and images) should be renamed, too.

> categories: news

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

authors:
- jark:
  name: "Jark Wu"
  twitter: "JarkWu"
excerpt: Apache Flink 1.11 has released many exciting new features, including many developments in Flink SQL which is evolving at a fast pace. This article takes a closer look at how to quickly build streaming applications with Flink SQL from a practical point of view.
---

Apache Flink 1.11.0 has released many exciting new features, including many developments in Flink SQL which is evolving at a fast pace. This article takes a closer look at how to quickly build streaming applications with Flink SQL from a practical point of view.

> In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze e-commerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this article are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, while the entire process uses standard SQL syntax, without a single line of Java or Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze e-commerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this blogpost are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, and the entire process uses standard SQL syntax, without a single line of Java/Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:
```

<center>

> <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image1.gif" width="800px" alt="Demo Overview"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image1.gif" width="650px" alt="Demo Overview"/>
```

Reviewer: To make the image less overpowering in the page and show what's coming next ("Preparation").

</center>
<br>

# Preparation

Prepare a Linux or MacOS computer with Docker installed.

> ## Use Docker Compose to Start Demo Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Starting the Demo Environment
```

The components required in this demo are all managed in containers, so we will use `docker-compose` to start them. First, download the `docker-compose.yml` file that defines the demo environment, for example by running the following commands:

```
mkdir flink-sql-demo; cd flink-sql-demo;
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wuchong/flink-sql-demo/v1.11-EN/docker-compose.yml
```

The Docker Compose environment consists of the following containers:

> - **Flink SQL CLI:** It's used to submit queries and visualize their results.
> - **Flink Cluster:** A Flink master and a Flink worker container to execute queries.
> - **MySQL:** MySQL 5.7 and a `category` table in the database. The `category` table will be joined with data in Kafka to enrich the real-time data.
> - **Kafka:** It is mainly used as a data source. The DataGen component automatically writes data into a Kafka topic.
> - **Zookeeper:** This component is required by Kafka.
> - **Elasticsearch:** It is mainly used as a data sink.
> - **Kibana:** It's used to visualize the data in Elasticsearch.
> - **DataGen:** It is the data generator. After the container is started, user behavior data is automatically generated and sent to the Kafka topic. By default, 2000 data entries are generated each second for about 1.5 hours. You can modify datagen's `speedup` parameter in `docker-compose.yml` to adjust the generation rate (which takes effect after docker compose is restarted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Flink SQL CLI:** used to submit queries and visualize their results.
- **Flink Cluster:** a Flink JobManager and a Flink TaskManager container to execute queries.
- **MySQL:** MySQL 5.7 and a pre-populated `category` table in the database. The `category` table will be joined with data in Kafka to enrich the real-time data.
- **Kafka:** mainly used as a data source. The DataGen component automatically writes data into a Kafka topic.
- **Zookeeper:** this component is required by Kafka.
- **Elasticsearch:** mainly used as a data sink.
- **Kibana:** used to visualize the data in Elasticsearch.
- **DataGen:** the data generator. After the container is started, user behavior data is automatically generated and sent to the Kafka topic. By default, 2000 data entries are generated each second for about 1.5 hours. You can modify DataGen's `speedup` parameter in `docker-compose.yml` to adjust the generation rate (which takes effect after Docker Compose is restarted).
```

> **Important:** Before starting the containers, we recommend configuring Docker so that sufficient resources are available and the environment does not become unresponsive. We suggest running Docker at 3-4 GB memory and 3-4 CPU cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-danger" markdown="1">
<span class="label label-danger" style="display: inline-block"> Note </span>
Before starting the containers, we recommend configuring Docker so that sufficient resources are available and the environment does not become unresponsive. We suggest running Docker at 3-4 GB memory and 3-4 CPU cores.
</div>
```

Reviewer: Making this note a bit more prominent.

To start all containers, run the following command in the directory that contains the `docker-compose.yml` file.

```
docker-compose up -d
```

This command automatically starts all the containers defined in the Docker Compose configuration in a detached mode. Run `docker ps` to check whether the 9 containers are running properly. You can also visit [http://localhost:5601/](http://localhost:5601/) to see if Kibana is running normally.

Don’t forget to run the following command to stop all containers after you finished the tutorial:

```
docker-compose down
```

## Entering the Flink SQL CLI client

To enter the SQL CLI client run:

```bash
docker-compose exec sql-client ./sql-client.sh
```

The command starts the SQL CLI client in the container.
You should see the welcome screen of the CLI client.

<center>

> <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image3.png" width="700px" alt="Flink SQL CLI welcome page"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image3.png" width="500px" alt="Flink SQL CLI welcome page"/>
```

</center>
<br>

> # Create a Kafka table using DDL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Kafka table using DDL
```

{"user_id": "952483", "item_id":"310884", "category_id": "4580532", "behavior": "pv", "ts": "2017-11-27T00:00:00Z"}
{"user_id": "794777", "item_id":"5119439", "category_id": "982926", "behavior": "pv", "ts": "2017-11-27T00:00:00Z"}
...
```

In order to make the events in the Kafka topic accessible to Flink SQL, we run the following DDL statement in SQL CLI to create a table that connects to the topic in the Kafka cluster:

```sql
CREATE TABLE user_behavior (
    user_id BIGINT,
    item_id BIGINT,
    category_id BIGINT,
    behavior STRING,
    ts TIMESTAMP(3),
    proctime AS PROCTIME(),   -- generates processing-time attribute using computed column
    WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts - INTERVAL '5' SECOND  -- defines watermark on ts column, marks ts as event-time attribute
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'kafka',  -- using kafka connector
    'topic' = 'user_behavior',  -- kafka topic
    'scan.startup.mode' = 'earliest-offset',  -- reading from the beginning
    'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'kafka:9094',  -- kafka broker address
    'format' = 'json'  -- the data format is json
);
```

> The above snippet declares five fields based on the data format. In addition, it uses the computed column syntax and built-in `PROCTIME()` function to declare a virtual column that generates the processing-time attribute. It also uses the WATERMARK syntax to declare the watermark strategy on the `ts` field (tolerate 5-seconds out-of-order). Therefore, the `ts` field becomes an event-time attribute. For more information about time attributes and DDL syntax, see the following official documents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above snippet declares five fields based on the data format. In addition, it uses the computed column syntax and built-in `PROCTIME()` function to declare a virtual column that generates the processing-time attribute. It also uses the `WATERMARK` syntax to declare the watermark strategy on the `ts` field (tolerate 5-seconds out-of-order). Therefore, the `ts` field becomes an event-time attribute. For more information about time attributes and DDL syntax, see the following official documents:
```

> - [For time attributes](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/streaming/time_attributes.html)
> - [For SQL DDL](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/sql/create.html#create-table)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Time attributes in Flink’s Table API & SQL](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/streaming/time_attributes.html)
- [DDL Syntax in Flink SQL](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/sql/create.html#create-table)
```

> After creating the `user_behavior` table in the SQL CLI, run `show tables;` and `describe user_behavior;` to see registered tables and table details. Also, run the command `SELECT * FROM user_behavior;` directly in the SQL CLI to preview the data (press `q` to exit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the `user_behavior` table in the SQL CLI, run `SHOW TABLES;` and `DESCRIBE user_behavior;` to see registered tables and table details. Also, run the command `SELECT * FROM user_behavior;` directly in the SQL CLI to preview the data (press `q` to exit).
```

Next, we discover more about Flink SQL through three real-world scenarios.

# Hourly Trading Volume

> ## Create Elasticsearch table using DDL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating an Elasticsearch table using DDL
```

Let’s create an Elasticsearch result table in the SQL CLI. We need two columns in this case: `hour_of_day` and `buy_cnt` (trading volume).

```sql
CREATE TABLE buy_cnt_per_hour (
    hour_of_day BIGINT,
    buy_cnt BIGINT
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'elasticsearch-7', -- using elasticsearch connector
    'hosts' = 'http://elasticsearch:9200',  -- elasticsearch address
    'index' = 'buy_cnt_per_hour'  -- elasticsearch index name, similar to database table name
);
```

There is no need to create the `buy_cnt_per_hour` index in Elasticsearch in advance since Elasticsearch will automatically create the index if it does not exist.

> ## Submit a Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Submitting a Query
```

> The hourly trading volume is the number of "buy" behaviors completed each hour. Therefore, we can use a TUMBLE window function to assign data into hourly windows. Then, we count the number of “buy” records in each window. To implement this, we can filter out the "buy" data first and then apply `COUNT(*)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hourly trading volume is the number of "buy" behaviors completed each hour. Therefore, we can use a `TUMBLE` window function to assign data into hourly windows. Then, we count the number of “buy” records in each window. To implement this, we can filter out the "buy" data first and then apply `COUNT(*)`.
```

```sql
INSERT INTO buy_cnt_per_hour
SELECT HOUR(TUMBLE_START(ts, INTERVAL '1' HOUR)), COUNT(*)
FROM user_behavior
WHERE behavior = 'buy'
GROUP BY TUMBLE(ts, INTERVAL '1' HOUR);
```

Here, we use the built-in `HOUR` function to extract the value for each hour in the day from a `TIMESTAMP` column. Use `INSERT INTO` to start a Flink SQL job that continuously writes results into the Elasticsearch `buy_cnt_per_hour` index. The Elasticearch result table can be seen as a materialized view of the query. You can find more information about Flink’s window aggregation in the [Apache Flink documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/sql/queries.html#group-windows).

> After running the previous query in the Flink SQL CLI, we can observe the submitted task on the Flink Web UI. This task is a streaming task and therefore runs continuously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the previous query in the Flink SQL CLI, we can observe the submitted task on the [Flink Web UI](http://localhost:8081). This task is a streaming task and therefore runs continuously.
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image4.jpg" width="800px" alt="Flink Dashboard"/>
</center>
<br>

## Using Kibana to Visualize Results

Access Kibana at [http://localhost:5601](http://localhost:5601). First, configure an index pattern by clicking "Management" in the left-side toolbar and find "Index Patterns". Next, click "Create Index Pattern" and enter the full index name `buy_cnt_per_hour` to create the index pattern. After creating the index pattern, we can explore data in Kibana.

> Note: since we are using the TUMBLE window of one hour here, it might take about four minutes between the time that containers started and until the first row is emitted. Until then the index does not exist and Kibana is unable to find the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info" markdown="1">
<span class="label label-info" style="display: inline-block"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-info-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> Note </span>
Since we are using the TUMBLE window of one hour here, it might take about four minutes between the time that containers started and until the first row is emitted. Until then the index does not exist and Kibana is unable to find the index.
</div>
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image6.jpg" width="800px" alt="Hourly Trading Volume"/>
</center>
<br>

You can see that during the early morning hours the number of transactions have the lowest value for the entire day.

As real-time data is added into the indices, you can enable auto-refresh in Kibana to see real-time visualization changes and updates. You can do so by clicking the time picker and entering a refresh interval (e.g. 3 seconds) in the “Refresh every” field.

# Cumulative number of Unique Visitors every 10-min

Another interesting visualization is the cumulative number of unique visitors (UV). For example, the number of UV at 10:00 represents the total number of UV from 00:00 to 10:00. Therefore, the curve is monotonically increasing.

Let’s create another Elasticsearch table in the SQL CLI to store the UV results. This table contains 3 columns: date, time and cumulative UVs.

> The `date_str` and `time_str` column are defined as primary key, Elasticsearch sink will use them to calculate the document id and work in upsert mode to update UV values under the document id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `date_str` and `time_str` column are defined as primary key, Elasticsearch sink will use them to calculate the document ID and work in upsert mode to update UV values under the document ID.
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE cumulative_uv (
    date_str STRING,
    time_str STRING,
    uv BIGINT,
    PRIMARY KEY (date_str, time_str) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'elasticsearch-7',
    'hosts' = 'http://elasticsearch:9200',
    'index' = 'cumulative_uv'
);
```

> We can extract the date and time using `DATE_FORMAT` function based on the `ts` field. As the section title describes, we only need to report every 10 minute. So we can use `SUBSTR` and the string concat function `||` to convert the time value into a 10-minute interval time string, such as `12:00`, `12:10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can extract the date and time using `DATE_FORMAT` function based on the `ts` field. As the section title describes, we only need to report every 10 minutes. So, we can use `SUBSTR` and the string concat function `||` to convert the time value into a 10-minute interval time string, such as `12:00`, `12:10`.
```

Next, we group data by `date_str` and perform a `COUNT DISTINCT` aggregation on `user_id` to get the current cumulative UV in this day. Additionally, we perform a `MAX` aggregation on `time_str` field to get the current stream time: the maximum event time observed so far.
As the maximum time is also a part of the primary key of the sink, the final result is that we will insert a new point into the elasticsearch every 10 minute. And every latest point will be updated continuously until the next 10-minute point is generated.

```sql
INSERT INTO cumulative_uv
SELECT date_str, MAX(time_str), COUNT(DISTINCT user_id) as uv
FROM (
  SELECT
    DATE_FORMAT(ts, 'yyyy-MM-dd') as date_str,
    SUBSTR(DATE_FORMAT(ts, 'HH:mm'),1,4) || '0' as time_str,
    user_id
  FROM user_behavior)
GROUP BY date_str;
```

> After submitting this query, we create a `cumulative_uv` index pattern in Kibana. We then create a "Line" (line graph) on the dashboard, by selecting the `cumulative_uv` index, and drawing the cumulative UV curve according to the configuration on the left side of the following figure before finally, saving the curve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After submitting this query, we create a `cumulative_uv` index pattern in Kibana. We then create a "Line" (line graph) on the dashboard, by selecting the `cumulative_uv` index, and drawing the cumulative UV curve according to the configuration on the left side of the following figure before finally saving the curve.
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image7.jpg" width="800px" alt="Cumulative Unique Visitors every 10-min"/>
</center>
<br>

# Top Categories

The last visualization represents the category rankings to inform us on the most popular categories in our e-commerce site. Since our data source offers events for more than 5,000 categories without providing any additional significance to our analytics, we would like to reduce it so that it only includes the top-level categories. We will use the data in our MySQL database by joining it as a dimension table with our Kafka events to map sub-categories to top-level categories.

Create a table in the SQL CLI to make the data in MySQL accessible to Flink SQL.

```sql
CREATE TABLE category_dim (
    sub_category_id BIGINT,
    parent_category_name STRING
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'jdbc',
    'url' = 'jdbc:mysql://mysql:3306/flink',
    'table-name' = 'category',
    'username' = 'root',
    'password' = '123456',
    'lookup.cache.max-rows' = '5000',
    'lookup.cache.ttl' = '10min'
);
```

> The underlying of JDBC connectors implements `LookupTableSource` interface, so the created JDBC table `category_dim` can be used as a temporal table (aka. lookup table) out-of-the-box in the data enrichment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The underlying JDBC connector implements the `LookupTableSource` interface, so the created JDBC table `category_dim` can be used as a temporal table (i.e. lookup table) out-of-the-box in the data enrichment.
```

In addition, create an Elasticsearch table to store the category statistics.

```sql
CREATE TABLE top_category (
    category_name STRING PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    buy_cnt BIGINT
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'elasticsearch-7',
    'hosts' = 'http://elasticsearch:9200',
    'index' = 'top_category'
);
```

> In order to enrich the category names, we use Flink SQL’s temporal table joins to join a dimension table. You can access more information about [temporal joins](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/streaming/joins.html#join-with-a-temporal-table) in the Flink documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to enrich the category names, we use Flink SQL’s temporal table joins to join a dimension table. You can access more information about [temporal joins](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.11/dev/table/streaming/joins.html#join-with-a-temporal-table) in the Flink documentation.
```

Additionally, we use the `CREATE VIEW` syntax to register the query as a logical view, allowing us to easily reference this query in subsequent queries and simplify nested queries. Please note that creating a logical view does not trigger the execution of the job and the view results are not persisted. Therefore, this statement is lightweight and does not have additional overhead.

```sql
CREATE VIEW rich_user_behavior AS
SELECT U.user_id, U.item_id, U.behavior, C.parent_category_name as category_name
FROM user_behavior AS U LEFT JOIN category_dim FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF U.proctime AS C
ON U.category_id = C.sub_category_id;
```

> Finally, we group the dimensional table by category name to count the number of `buy` events and we write the result to Elasticsearch’s `top_category` index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we group the dimensional table by category name to count the number of `buy` events and write the result to Elasticsearch’s `top_category` index.
```

```sql
INSERT INTO top_category
SELECT category_name, COUNT(*) buy_cnt
FROM rich_user_behavior
WHERE behavior = 'buy'
GROUP BY category_name;
```

After submitting the query, we create a `top_category` index pattern in Kibana. We then  create a "Horizontal Bar" (bar graph) on the dashboard, by selecting the `top_category` index and drawing the category ranking according to the configuration on the left side of the following diagram before finally saving the list.

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image8.jpg" width="800px" alt="Top Categories"/>
</center>
<br>

> As illustrated in the diagram, the categories of clothing and shoes exceed by far other categories on the e-commerce website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As illustrated in the diagram, the categories of clothing and shoes exceed by far other categories on the e-commerce website.

<hr>
```

> We have now implemented three practical applications and created charts for them. We now return to the dashboard page and to drag and drop each view and give our dashboard a more formal and intuitive style, as illustrated at the beginning of this article. Of course, Kibana also provides a rich set of graphics and visualization features, and the user_behavior logs contain a lot more interesting information to explore. With the use of Flink SQL you can analyze data in more dimensions, while using Kibana allows you to display more views and observe real-time changes in its charts!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now implemented three practical applications and created charts for them. We can now return to the dashboard page and drag-and-drop each view to give our dashboard a more formal and intuitive style, as illustrated in the beginning of the blogpost. Of course, Kibana also provides a rich set of graphics and visualization features, and the user_behavior logs contain a lot more interesting information to explore. Using Flink SQL, you can analyze data in more dimensions, while using Kibana allows you to display more views and observe real-time changes in its charts!
```

# Summary

> In the previous sections we described how to use Flink SQL to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana to quickly build a real-time analytics application. The entire process can be completed using standard SQL syntax, without a line of Java or Scala code. We hope that this article provides some clear and practical examples of the convenience and power of Flink SQL, featuring, among others, an easy connection to various external systems, native support for event time and out-of-order handling, dimension table joins and a wide range of built-in functions. We hope you have fun following the examples in the article!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous sections, we described how to use Flink SQL to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana to quickly build a real-time analytics application. The entire process can be completed using standard SQL syntax, without a line of Java or Scala code. We hope that this article provides some clear and practical examples of the convenience and power of Flink SQL, featuring an easy connection to various external systems, native support for event time and out-of-order handling, dimension table joins and a wide range of built-in functions. We hope you have fun following the examples in this blogpost!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Flink SQL Demo: Building an End-to-End Streaming Application"
date: 2020-05-03T12:00:00.000Z
categories: news
authors:
- jark:
  name: "Jark Wu"
  twitter: "JarkWu"
excerpt: Apache Flink 1.10 has released many exciting new features, including many developments in Flink SQL which is evolving at a fast pace. This article takes a closer look at how to quickly build streaming applications with Flink SQL from a practical point of view.
---

Apache Flink 1.10.0 has released many exciting new features, including many developments in Flink SQL which is evolving at a fast pace. This article takes a closer look at how to quickly build streaming applications with Flink SQL from a practical point of view.

> In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze ecommerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this article are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, while the entire process uses plain SQL text, without a single line of Java or Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze ecommerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this article are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, while the entire process uses standard SQL syntax, without a single line of Java or Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:
```

> In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze ecommerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this article are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, while the entire process uses plain SQL text, without a single line of Java or Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we describe how to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana with Flink SQL to analyze e-commerce user behavior in real-time. All exercises in this article are performed in the Flink SQL CLI, while the entire process uses plain SQL text, without a single line of Java or Scala code or IDE installation. The final result of this demo is shown in the following figure:
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image1.png" width="800px" alt="Demo Overview"/>
</center>
<br>

# Preparation

> Prepare a Linux or MacOS computer with Docker and Java 8 installed. A Java environment is required because we will install and run Flink cluster in the host environment, not in a Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare a Linux or MacOS computer with Docker and Java 8 installed. A Java environment is required because we will install and run a Flink cluster in the host environment, not in a Docker container.
```

1. Download and decompress [Apache Flink 1.10.0](https://www.apache.org/dist/flink/flink-1.10.0/flink-1.10.0-bin-scala_2.11.tgz) into the `flink-1.10.0` directory:
2. Go to the `flink-1.10.0` directory by running `cd flink-1.10.0`.
3. Run the following command to download the JAR dependency package and copy it to the `lib/` directory.

    ```
wget -P ./lib/ https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-json/1.10.0/flink-json-1.10.0.jar | \
    wget -P ./lib/ https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-connector-kafka_2.11/1.10.0/flink-sql-connector-kafka_2.11-1.10.0.jar | \
    wget -P ./lib/ https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-connector-elasticsearch6_2.11/1.10.0/flink-sql-connector-elasticsearch6_2.11-1.10.0.jar | \
    wget -P ./lib/ https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-jdbc_2.11/1.10.0/flink-jdbc_2.11-1.10.0.jar | \
    wget -P ./lib/ https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/5.1.48/mysql-connector-java-5.1.48.jar
```

4. In `conf/flink-conf.yaml`, set `taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots` to `10`, since during this demo we will be launching multiple jobs.

> 5. Run `./bin/start-cluster.sh` to start the cluster. Check if Flink is up by accessing the Flink Web UI at [http://localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081). The number of available slots should be 10.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Run `./bin/start-cluster.sh` to start the cluster. Check that Flink is up and running by accessing the Flink Web UI at [http://localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081). The number of available slots should be 10.
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image2.png" width="800px" alt="Demo Overview"/>
</center>
<br>
6. Run `bin/sql-client.sh embedded` to start the SQL CLI. You will see the following squirrel welcome page.

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image3.png" width="800px" alt="Flink SQL CLI welcome page"/>
</center>
<br>

> 

Reviewer 3: Hi @wuchong, I really like this. Can I ask why Flink is not dockerized? I think removing all this setup would go a long way towards helping attract new users to this post and make it less daunting to follow along. There are examples of setting up this sort of environment in the Ververica SQL training repo and on Fabian's Github. 

Instead of using `wget` to download the docker-compose file we could clone a repo that has a docker-compose along with any additional Dockerfiles if need be.

I realize this is larger than normal ask on a blog post so I won't block merging if you don't have the bandwidth to add this. 

[1] https://github.com/ververica/sql-training/
[2] https://github.com/fhueske/flink-sql-demo

    'connector.properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'localhost:9092',  -- kafka broker address
    'format.type' = 'json'  -- the data format is json
);
```

The above snippet declares five fields based on the data format. In addition, it uses the computed column syntax and built-in `PROCTIME()` function to declare a virtual column that generates the processing-time attribute. It also uses the WATERMARK syntax to declare the watermark strategy on the `ts` field (tolerate 5-seconds out-of-order). Therefore, the `ts` field becomes an event-time attribute. For more information about time attributes and DDL syntax, see the following official documents:

- [For time attributes](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/streaming/time_attributes.html)
- [For SQL DDL](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/sql/create.html#create-table)

After creating the `user_behavior` table in the SQL CLI, run `show tables;` and `describe user_behavior;` to see registered tables and table details. Also, run the command `SELECT * FROM user_behavior;` directly in the SQL CLI to preview the data (press `q` to exit).

> Next, we discover more about Flink SQL through three real scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we discover more about Flink SQL through three real-world scenarios.
```

# Hourly Trading Volume

## Create Elasticsearch table using DDL

Let’s create an Elasticsearch result table in the SQL CLI. We need two columns in this case: `hour_of_day` and `buy_cnt` (trading volume).

```sql
CREATE TABLE buy_cnt_per_hour (
    hour_of_day BIGINT,
    buy_cnt BIGINT
) WITH (
    'connector.type' = 'elasticsearch', -- using elasticsearch connector
    'connector.version' = '6',  -- elasticsearch version, 6 supports both 6+ and 7+
    'connector.hosts' = 'http://localhost:9200',  -- elasticsearch address
    'connector.index' = 'buy_cnt_per_hour',  -- elasticsearch index name, similar to database table name
    'connector.document-type' = 'user_behavior', -- elasticsearch type name
    'connector.bulk-flush.max-actions' = '1',  -- refresh for every row
    'format.type' = 'json',  -- output data in json format
    'update-mode' = 'append'
);
```

> There is no need to create the `buy_cnt_per_hour` index in Elasticsearch in advance since Elasticsearch will automatically create the index if it doesn’t exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no need to create the `buy_cnt_per_hour` index in Elasticsearch in advance since Elasticsearch will automatically create the index if it does not exist.
```

Author: Do we need to add `,` before `in advance`? In my understanding, it belongs to the "create index".

Reviewer 2: you're correct @wuchong - this is not necessary here. I will update this suggestion

## Submit a Query

The hourly trading volume is the number of "buy" behaviors completed each hour. Therefore, we can use a TUMBLE window function to assign data into hourly windows. Then, we count the number of “buy” records in each window. To implement this, we can filter out the "buy" data first and then apply `COUNT(*)`.

```sql
INSERT INTO buy_cnt_per_hour
SELECT HOUR(TUMBLE_START(ts, INTERVAL '1' HOUR)), COUNT(*)
FROM user_behavior
WHERE behavior = 'buy'
GROUP BY TUMBLE(ts, INTERVAL '1' HOUR);
```

> Here, we use the built-in `HOUR` function to extract the value for each hour in the day from a `TIMESTAMP` column. Use `INSERT INTO` to start a Flink SQL job that continuously writes results into the Elasticsearch `buy_cnt_per_hour` index. The ES result table can be seen as a materialized view of the query. You can find more information about Flink’s window aggregation in the [Apache Flink documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/sql/queries.html#group-windows).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, we use the built-in `HOUR` function to extract the value for each hour in the day from a `TIMESTAMP` column. Use `INSERT INTO` to start a Flink SQL job that continuously writes results into the Elasticsearch `buy_cnt_per_hour` index. The Elasticearch result table can be seen as a materialized view of the query. You can find more information about Flink’s window aggregation in the [Apache Flink documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/sql/queries.html#group-windows).
```

After running the previous query in the Flink SQL CLI, we can observe the submitted task on the Flink Web UI. This task is a streaming task and therefore runs continuously.

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image4.png" width="800px" alt="Flink Dashboard"/>
</center>
<br>

## Using Kibana to Visualize Results

Access Kibana at [http://localhost:5601](http://localhost:5601). First, configure an index pattern by clicking "Management" in the left-side toolbar and find "Index Patterns". Next, click "Create Index Pattern" and enter the full index name `buy_cnt_per_hour` to create the index pattern. After creating the index pattern, we can explore data in Kibana.

> Note: since we are using the TUMBLE window of one hour here, it might take about 4 minutes since containers started until the first row is emitted. Until then the index doesn’t exist and Kibana won’t find the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: since we are using the TUMBLE window of one hour here, it might take about four minutes between the time that containers started and until the first row is emitted. Until then the index does not exist and Kibana is unable to find the index.
```

Click "Discover" in the left-side toolbar. Kibana lists the content of the created index.

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image5.png" width="800px" alt="Kibana Discover"/>
</center>
<br>

> Next, create a dashboard to display various views. Click "Dashboard" on the left side of the page to create a dashboard named "User Behavior Analysis". Then, click "Create New" to create a new view. Select "Area"  (area graph), then select the `buy_cnt_per_hour` index, and draw the trading volume area chart as illustrated in the configuration on the left side of the following diagram. Apply the changes by clicking the “▶” play button. Then, save it as "Hourly Trading Volume".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, create a dashboard to display various views. Click "Dashboard" on the left side of the page to create a dashboard named "User Behavior Analysis". Then, click "Create New" to create a new view. Select "Area" (area graph), then select the `buy_cnt_per_hour` index, and draw the trading volume area chart as illustrated in the configuration on the left side of the following diagram. Apply the changes by clicking the “▶” play button. Then, save it as "Hourly Trading Volume".
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image6.png" width="800px" alt="Hourly Trading Volume"/>
</center>
<br>

You can see that during the early morning hours the number of transactions have the lowest value for the entire day.

> As real-time data is added into the indices, you can enable auto-refresh in Kibana to feel the visualization is changing in real-time. You can click the timepicker, enter a refresh interval (e.g. 3 seconds) in the “Refresh every” field to enable auto-refresh.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As real-time data is added into the indices, you can enable auto-refresh in Kibana to see real-time visualization changes and updates. You can do so by clicking the time picker and entering a refresh interval (e.g. 3 seconds) in the “Refresh every” field to enable auto-refresh.
```

> Cumulative number of Unique Visitors every 10-min

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Cumulative number of Unique Visitors every 10-min**
```

Author: I think I missed to mark this as a header.

Let’s create another Elasticsearch table in the SQL CLI to store the UV results. This table has two columns: time and cumulative UVs.

```sql
CREATE TABLE cumulative_uv (
    time_str STRING,
    uv BIGINT
) WITH (
    'connector.type' = 'elasticsearch',
    'connector.version' = '6',
    'connector.hosts' = 'http://localhost:9200',
    'connector.index' = 'cumulative_uv',
    'connector.document-type' = 'user_behavior',
    'format.type' = 'json',
    'update-mode' = 'upsert'
);
```

We can use SQL’s OVER and WINDOW clauses to calculate the cumulative UVs (the number of UVs from 00:00 to current record) and the time point of the current record. Here, the built-in `COUNT(DISTINCT user_id)` is used to count the number of UVs. Flink SQL has significant performance improvements for COUNT DISTINCT.

```sql
CREATE VIEW uv_per_10min AS
SELECT
  MAX(SUBSTR(DATE_FORMAT(ts, 'HH:mm'),1,4) || '0') OVER w AS time_str,
  COUNT(DISTINCT user_id) OVER w AS uv
FROM user_behavior
WINDOW w AS (ORDER BY proctime ROWS BETWEEN UNBOUNDED PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW);
```

> We use SUBSTR, `DATE_FORMAT`, and `||` functions to convert a TIMESTAMP field into a 10-minute interval time string, such as 12:10, 12:20. You can find more information about [OVER WINDOW](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/sql/queries.html#aggregations) support in the Apache Flink documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use SUBSTR, `DATE_FORMAT`, and `||` functions to convert a TIMESTAMP field into a 10-minute interval time string, such as 12:10, 12:20. You can find more information about Flink's support for [OVER WINDOW](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/table/sql/queries.html#aggregations) in the Apache Flink documentation.
```

  CASE C.parent_category_id
    WHEN 1 THEN 'Clothing & Shoes'
    WHEN 2 THEN 'Home & Kitchens'
    WHEN 3 THEN 'Books'
    WHEN 4 THEN 'Electronics'
    WHEN 5 THEN 'Tools'
    WHEN 6 THEN 'Cell Phones'
    WHEN 7 THEN 'Sports & Outdoors'
    WHEN 8 THEN 'Foods'
    ELSE 'Others'
  END AS category_name
FROM user_behavior AS U LEFT JOIN category_dim FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF U.proctime AS C
ON U.category_id = C.sub_category_id;
```

Finally, we group the dimensional table by category name to count the number of `buy` events and we write the result to Elasticsearch’s `top_category` index.

```sql
INSERT INTO top_category
SELECT category_name, COUNT(*) buy_cnt
FROM rich_user_behavior
WHERE behavior = 'buy'
GROUP BY category_name;
```

After submitting the query, we create a `top_category` index pattern in Kibana. We then  create a "Horizontal Bar" (bar graph) on the dashboard, by selecting the `top_category` index and drawing the category ranking according to the configuration on the left side of the following diagram before finally saving the list.

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2020-05-03-flink-sql-demo/image8.png" width="800px" alt="Top Categories"/>
</center>
<br>

> As illustrated in the diagram, the categories of clothing and shoes exceed by far other categories in the e-commerce website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As illustrated in the diagram, the categories of clothing and shoes exceed by far other categories on the e-commerce website.
```

> We have now implemented three practical applications and created charts for them. We now return to the dashboard page and to drag and drop each view and give our dashboard a more formal and intuitive style, as illustrated at the beginning of this article. Of course, Kibana also provides a rich set of graphics and visualization features, and the user_behavior logs contain a lot more interesting information to explore. With the use of Flink SQL you can analyze data in more dimensions, while using Kibana allows you to display more views and observe real-time changes in its graphs!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now implemented three practical applications and created charts for them. We now return to the dashboard page and to drag and drop each view and give our dashboard a more formal and intuitive style, as illustrated at the beginning of this article. Of course, Kibana also provides a rich set of graphics and visualization features, and the user_behavior logs contain a lot more interesting information to explore. With the use of Flink SQL you can analyze data in more dimensions, while using Kibana allows you to display more views and observe real-time changes in its charts!
```

# Summary

> In the previous sections we described how to use Flink SQL to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana to quickly build a real-time analytics application. The entire process can be completed using plain SQL syntax, without a line of Java or Scala code. We hope that this article provides some clear and practical examples of the convenient and powerful Flink SQL, featuring, among others, an easy connection to various external systems, native support for event time and out-of-order handling, dimension table joins and a wide range of built-in functions. We hope you have fun following the examples in the article!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous sections we described how to use Flink SQL to integrate Kafka, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Kibana to quickly build a real-time analytics application. The entire process can be completed using standard SQL syntax, without a line of Java or Scala code. We hope that this article provides some clear and practical examples of the convenience and power of Flink SQL, featuring, among others, an easy connection to various external systems, native support for event time and out-of-order handling, dimension table joins and a wide range of built-in functions. We hope you have fun following the examples in the article!
```
